I can be as I could train or study as
much as I want to and like what do I
know about your life like I don't know
anything about your life right but I had
a question about how to keep the
relationship flame going I mean I so I
think that people need to understand
that you don't have to have like a
particular problem to go to therapy
he can get there and you can to that I
think is a very important lesson right
that's the final boss when the final
boss shows up you don't just like say oh
[ __ ] [ __ ] this I'm done with that so
that's [ __ ] twitches problem right is
that like half y'all or giver uppers
this is the other thing is that a lot of
people live their life based on the
imagined emotions of other people but
sometimes I feel I can do everything and
someday soon I feel I can't because I
have a fear of failure how do I deal
with this right it's just not meditation
to remove yourself from the negative
it's meditation to remove yourself from
the positive too
uh what about listening to music while
doing intent doing brain intensive work
like studying coding algorithm questions
I like to listen to techno while doing
coding practice but recently I've
started to experiment with not listening
to music to see if it will help me focus
better so I think here's the thing so oh
wow thank you for the the gifted subs
confused monkey and keep our scam train
going guys so I think the key thing so
this person saying like I listen to
techno while I'm doing coding practice
but recently I've started to experiment
with not listening to music to see if it
will help me focus better what do you
think um so I think the more most
important thing is that you experiment
right like the it's not about what I
think is right or wrong so like you guys
have to understand this okay so people
come to the stream and they think that
this is about expertise right but it's
not like I can be as I could train or
study as much as I want to and like what
do I know about your life like I don't
know anything about your life right not
true um when it really comes down to it
it's like you guys should experiment
with the stuff that I do like don't take
what I say is gospel like this isn't
that's not what we're trying to do here
like the goal is to give you guys
options for you to experiment and then
like figure out what works for you so
I'm the same way sometimes I like to
work while doing music I tend to work
really well in some ways some kinds of
cognitive activity I think go well with
music other kinds of cognitive activity
I like silence or I work best in silence
and so you know I think you should
experiment for yourself like so when I'm
writing some kinds of stuff I like music
or I like silence when I'm doing other
kinds of work like if I'm building a
to-do list I like to do it in silence I
listen to something upbeat if I'm
feeling low and especially if I'm gonna
do something like stream or teach so
when I put on like a stage presence
and when I sort of need to be in the
zone I'll like listen to some kind of
upbeat music I have like a playlist of
like stuff like das mala Fitz
and it sort of depends so I think kind
of figure out what works for you
question for doctor came yeah now the
disclaimers over y'all can y'all can
just ahead how high my doctor came my
name is Sabina
hello Sabina I live in Europe so I watch
your streams after they are done airing
cuz sleep good for you but I had a
question about how to keep the
relationship flame going okay I moved to
Germany for my girlfriend and we are
together now for six months and it's
just perfect respect trust time to
ourselves going on dates being able to
chill together at the moment I feel like
I have the perfect relationship we want
to move in together after she is done
with school the summer do you have any
tips on how to keep a relationship
really good after moving in or generally
after being together for long I watch
all of your streams so if you include
the question I would be very grateful
thanks for helping me procrastinate less
by the way really helped okay so first
thing is I don't know if this question
applies to many other people who are
watching right so like how do you keep a
relationship good or keep it going is
probably going to be confusing for most
of the people who are watching so and
yeah sorry I can't help myself so you
guys know I love y'all right and I
actually do respect you and I know many
of you guys are in relationships but
let's be clear like I'm envisioning so
just so you guys know in my mind when I
picture my viewer I picture myself at
the age of 19 like that's who I'm
talking to and at that point if you guys
want to hear a super cringe story I'll
tell you guys the most cringe thing that
I've ever done in terms of asking a girl
out or actually not even asking a girl
out I'll tell you guys on Valentine's
Day so remind me to tell the story most
mortifying thing I still get emotional
about it when I think about it so let's
say answer this question though so okay
so how do you keep things good in a
relationship so the first thing to
understand is that you know I'd be
really curious how old this person is
but the thing to remember is that like
relationships are gonna change over time
and people are gonna change over time so
if you're trying to preserve what you
have now that's not going to work the
first thing to understand right so
people are gonna change people are gonna
grow so it sounds like you're dating a
student right now and that person soon
may not be a student so their life is
gonna change their pressures are gonna
change their stress is gonna change
they're gonna be exposed to different
people so I think the best way to keep a
healthy relationship is to understand
what's happening in your relationship
and also not try to hold on to it so
don't try to hold on to a particular
thing because understand that people are
going to change over time and that your
relationship is going to change over
time and that you have to like kind of
roll with the punches so as as your as
demands on each of y'all changes you
guys grow as people like be really
proactive about it
because I think what the the reason that
relationships fail over time is because
people are growing and changing without
actually talking about it or realizing
it and then like five years down the
road you're like in this situation where
you've been engaged for three years and
neither of y'all is really sure if you
want to get married but you have so much
momentum you just kind of stay in the
relationship he's saying the
relationship out of momentum instead of
like growing together and then over time
you start to resent each other because
you're not the person that they used to
be they're not you're not the person
that you used to be they're not the
person they used to be and that's okay
it's just the more you guys are aware of
how you guys change and like if you
share that with your partner they can
kind of you guys can like work through
it you don't end up in as a situation
where you're like 40 married with a
couple of kids and one he wakes up one
day and it's like I want an open
relationship because I want to sleep
with other people like that's just if
you get to that point without all of the
discussion that's happened then just
understand that like you're kind of like
it's gonna be really tough at that point
right so most people wait until
relationships are on the verge of like
having real problems before trying to go
to marriage counseling or things like
that which sort of make sense but I
think you should be really proactive
about understanding how your how your
relationship is evolving and as long as
you continue to have conversations like
every six months or every year about
okay where are you going where am I
going where are we going what's working
for us what isn't do I need to make
certain sacrifices for you do you need
to make certain sacrifices for me so
like I had those thankfully
those conversations with my wife sort of
automatically because after I finished
college she was still in Austin and I
had the opportunity to like move to
Boston to do research and so we kind of
talked about what that meant for us and
like whether she was gonna come or
whether we gonna try a long-distance and
then she eventually moved to New York
because her her company got acquired and
then we were kind of like long-distance
in Boston New York and then like that
was another conversation like when are
you gonna move when are you not gonna
move like do we want to be together how
long do we want to do this and then she
was basically like I'll move if you put
a ring on it and I was like okay so then
it was kind of up to me and so I put a
ring on it
and then she moved and we're at not
really that happily-ever-after part but
we're pretty happy right now so okay
okay so I think it's reasonable right so
if you have demands and things that you
want in a relationship you should share
them with someone demands doesn't sound
right but okay so so how do I know if I
should seek therapy for a specific
problem
I just turned 24 and I haven't had a
girlfriend I've been with girls but I
just can't seem to be able to build a
relationship what do you think reckful I
got this okay so I really critically
thinking that answer I just spit out was
Jim spit out dude
okay so the nice thing about therapy is
you you'll have all these thoughts going
through your head back and forth of like
am i doing the right thing here am i
doing the right thing here maybe this is
bad maybe that's bad but then you'll
just say all your thoughts and then the
therapist old would kind of lead you in
a healthy direction maybe give you a few
options still but this is the healthier
one so you could cut out the ones that
aren't healthy so it's like you're
playing Who Wants to Be a Millionaire
there's ABCD I just thought of this
analogy and then you do the 50/50 thing
the therapist gives you the 50/50 thing
instead of you picking four four options
and then it's your whole life seem a lot
simpler so it sounds like you think this
person should go to therapy for this
yeah yeah I agree so first of all
reckful beautifully beautiful analogy
there and I mean I so I think that
people need to understand that you don't
have to have like a particular problem
to
go to therapy because part of what
therapy is about is like reckful said
helping you narrow down like what the
issues are right so if you're 24 and you
don't have a girlfriend is it because
you just have had bad locker because you
don't leave the house or because you're
like so it sounds like you've been with
girls and so you date but you may have
some other kinds of psychological issues
kind of going on that prevent you from
going getting into a relationship and
also like it could just be that you just
haven't met someone that you think is
worth having a relationship with right
so I think going to therapy is like a
great idea if you're if there's some if
there's some place in your life where do
you feel stuck and you're not quite sure
why or how to move forward I think
therapy is a great option so I mean I I
understand what you all mean so I think
the question is would it have been more
productive if he was not on psilocybin
so first of all we don't know what he
was on or what he wasn't done right so
let's just be clear about that that we
perceived something and we can have a
hypothesis and we can have a pretty good
a high likelihood of I don't know how to
do that okay anyway I don't know how to
do that but so so we can have a
hypothesis but then the other thing that
I want to share with you guys is like so
be patient right with yourselves and and
with him and that we take we take people
like the way that they are on stream and
that can mean happy that can mean sad
that can mean what I mean unless it
becomes like a really problematic but I
I think the other thing that was so I
here's so you could say like I could
have gotten upset right I could have
said oh like like he's [ __ ] high like
it's this is a waste of time he keeps on
getting distracted that's really easy to
do and there's a good reason you could
do that you could sort of say like hey
if you're not gonna take this seriously
like whatever you could do all of that
stuff but I don't think that's what
we're here for right we're here because
sometimes people show up and they're not
on their a-game and when they're not on
their a-game or he may think he's on his
a game I don't know so you guys decide
what what's a game and what isn't but
like that's how you aren't like
sometimes you're not on your a game and
like you should cut yourself some slack
and like don't give up on yourself or
don't give up on someone else for not
showing their aching
you take people where they are you meet
people where they are that's where you
start you don't expect them to be what
they are not right that's not like help
is not conditional based upon someone
being where you want them to be or
someone being where they should be like
you meet people where they are that's
the only way that change happens so do I
think it's productive absolutely so I
think like we learned an important
lesson today right which now I'm gonna
sound arrogant but I hope you guys
everyone who's judging him for being the
way that he was that you can be
productive if you stick with it that you
should not give up because I think that
everyone would have been fine if I said
if I cut off the interview after 15
minutes I said hey this is just not
working like everyone would have been
fine with that right so like put like be
patient
it's not about perseverance it's not
necessarily about never giving up
because I think you know at some point
things are futile but be patient be
patient with people be patient with
yourselves most of all and like
understand coz what do you guys do like
when you don't show up with your a-game
for yourself in your own life how do you
treat yourself you cheat yourself
terribly you give up on yourself so
easily you beat the crap out of yourself
you're lazy you're stupid you're
undisciplined not stupid because you
guys think you're smart right you're
lazy so don't do that don't give up on
yourself it can be productive be patient
give yourself a chance and despite any
amount of like stuff that's floating
around in your brain like you can
actually find a productive something at
the end of it if you just stick it
through so I mean I think another
version of this question is that like do
I think the session would have been
different or arguably more productive
absolutely right so if someone's not
distracted but like dealing with
distraction is like actually really
important so on the other hand like just
the fact that you can I mean despite
everything that was stacked against us
in terms of emotions ADHD a dude doing
[ __ ] construction he can get there
and you can too that I think is a very
important less
right that's the final boss when the
final boss shows up you don't just like
say oh [ __ ] [ __ ] this I'm done when the
final boss shows up you [ __ ] you
level up and you rise to the challenge
and whether it be construction or
psilocybin or emotions or trauma or
whatever the [ __ ] it is you do what you
showed up to do
that's what you got to do so don't
[ __ ] give up okay how do you grow up
from being emotionally neglected for a
long time so I think you it takes time
so the first thing is yes so someone
saying i'ma give up er yeah like that so
that's [ __ ] twitches problem right is
that like half y'all or giver uppers and
when I say half of y'all what I'm
thinking of once again is my 19 year old
self I was definitely give up er like I
was a giver-upper and be patient with
yourself because it took me eight years
from being on academic probation to
starting med school like eight years
eight years is a long-ass time like long
long long time and starting med school
by the way was ten years ago
so starting med school is eight years
after being a giver-upper
and then it takes another decade to get
to where I am today 18 years of my life
have been spent on this journey so don't
judge yourself for [ __ ] around for
two or three like two or three is
nothing man give yourself time stick it
through to the end so how do you grow up
from being emotionally neglected for a
long time so I think it happened slowly
okay and I think that unfortunately like
you can't fix all of the emotional
neglect yourself I think what you can
fix is like if you have so emotional
neglect is going to result in certain
patterns that affect your current
relationships the real solution is to
not be emotionally neglected right to
engage in relationships there's no
substitute for love so if you weren't
like appropriately loved what
you were growing up like you can't just
be a pillar by yourself like human
beings need love so you have to engage
in a relationship where you like a
healthy relation to be romantic but it
can be like with a mentor or a friend or
even like you can adopt or have a kid or
whatever like you can there are all
kinds of healthy relationships through
which you can undo emotional neglect the
real challenge is that as a result of
that emotional neglect you are going to
exhibit certain behaviors and have
certain cognitive biases that are gonna
make it hard for you to successfully
engage in a healthy relationship so your
job is to understand yourself go to
therapy learn to meditate do some yoga
do all of the above and notice those
patterns notice the way that you solve
sabotage because when you're emotionally
neglected you're going to sabotage
relationships not all the time but like
that's what happens for a lot of people
and then that's really the problem so
once you stop the self-sabotage then the
relationships will naturally grow
because generally speaking I don't care
what you think about yourself like most
human beings are actually pretty cool
like I don't know if you all realize
this but like most people are actually
pretty cool and like all you have to do
is like hang out with someone to sort of
realize that most people are pretty cool
and so if you just give yourself some
time and some space like it'll work out
well so really work on those behaviors
and how your emotions influence the
things that you do
okay
okay so I hate to hurt people how do you
break up with someone you genuinely care
for and you're the reason they get hurt
I hate to hurt people I love how do you
break up with someone you genuinely care
for and you're the reason they get hurt
okay that's an interesting question so I
mean so I I think your compass should
not as bizarre as the sounds whether you
do something or don't do something
should not necessarily be dictated by
another person's feelings that's my
short answer right so if I don't like my
job but I respect my boss and he was
loyal to me and if I left that would
have hurt his feelings it doesn't mean
that I should stay in his job right so
like I this is gonna sound really
dangerous so I don't want you guys want
you guys to really listen carefully to
what I'm saying so I mean hurt feelings
are a part of life does that mean that
you should go around and be an [ __ ]
no but that also means that like it's
not your responsibility really at the
end of the day like you can't control
the way that someone else feels if the
relationship is not working for you I
think it's reasonable to end the
relationship and do it as
compassionately as possible and do your
entire by in the relationship right so
like don't just like be an [ __ ] to
them and leave them hanging but let them
know but I think honestly I mean if
you're in a relationship with someone I
think part of your Dharma is to like
give that person the opportunity to be
in a relationship with someone who wants
to be in a relationship with them and if
that involves a little bit of pain along
the way I think that's fine I think it's
a far bigger sin to stay in a
relationship that you don't want to and
have them be in a relationship with
someone who doesn't want to be with them
like that's gonna breed way more subtle
resentment passive-aggressive stuff and
all kinds of crap that's like incredibly
toxic and under the surface so I think
that
you just got a you know I understand
that you hate to hurt people that you
love but I think sometimes you have to
do things that they may find hurtful
this is the other thing is that a lot of
people live their life based on the
imagined emotions of other people just
think about this for a second right you
don't know what they're actually going
to experience but the reason that you
stay in the relationship is because when
you imagine their reaction you imagine
that hurt and you're actually living
your your life based on your imagination
of someone else's reaction like what the
actual [ __ ] is that that is no way to
live life
you are controlled by hypothetical
emotions in future human beings like so
what's up with that right so this is
something that I work on a fair amount
this is part of our curriculum by the
way that I'm developing because this is
a common thing right so this is a quote
from like a lecture or a class or
something I'm putting out a series of
lectures that a lot of people live based
on the imagined emotions of others and
that's actually how you live your life
on the imagine you live your life based
on hypotheticals so don't do that right
we'll explore like how that what that's
about and I can talk more about that but
you know also understand that like
people can be disappointed and be hurt
and also be happy for you because people
are multi-dimensional like if you tell
someone hey I just don't think this is
the right relationship I love you a lot
but I just don't see us together like
long-term and I'm sorry like I've been
trying to not be in this room
I've been trying to not do this because
I care about you so much and I don't
want to hurt you
but at the same time like I just don't
think it's fair to you for me to
actually say in this relationship out of
loyalty and I think we should end things
and then you listen to what they say and
if they have like really good arguments
for you to stay or they want to give it
another shot and they want to give it
three months and see where it goes like
you can have that conversation my point
is that like that conversation needs to
be had
right so you break up with someone and
you you be honest with them because they
deserve your honesty they don't deserve
your like obfuscation and you hiding
your feelings and and if you have some
if there's some reason that the
relationship isn't working out like
that's the way you repair it you start
with a conversation you want to break up
with them for a particular reason right
but you that's got to come out in the
open because if you have a grievance you
have to give them a chance to solve it
that's otherwise the relationships not
gonna work okay how do you deal with
self-doubt sometimes I feel I can do
everything and someday soon I feel I
can't because I have a fear of failure
how do I deal with this okay
so how do you deal with self-doubt
sometimes sometimes I feel I can do
everything and someday soon I feel I
can't because I have a fear of failure
how do I deal with this okay so there's
like a short answer and there's a long
it so the first is that you actually
fail is that you just fail right because
if you fail and if you survive and you
get used to failure it's kind of like
reckful right he's actually okay with
rejection
he gets okay handling rejection he's
gotten good at it just fail and survive
and then like you fail a couple times
and you fail a couple more times and you
fail a couple more times so I had
something like a hundred forty
rejections from med school before I got
accepted the first five hurt a lot
the next twenty hurt a lot the next ten
not so much and then the next year the
first five so like forty forty through
forty five hurt a lot and then they
heard a lot and they heard a lot and
they heard a lot and then he get used to
it and then you just keep going so oddly
I think the the the solution to fear of
failure it's like how do you overcome a
fear of heights or a fear of dogs is
like exposure therapy right like you go
and you hang out with a dog you manage
your fear you see that you're alive you
go to the Empire State Building and you
look down and you feel like oh my god
that's so scary and then you look out of
your airplane window and things like
that you do things in a safe manner but
you expose yourself to your fear and you
begin to realize that actually just like
reckful the fear of rejection
is more dangerous than rejection itself
and that generally is true like fear of
things is actually like worse often
times than the thing itself you know
obvious caveats like that's not
blanketly true like I think it I mean
I'd rather be afraid of cancer than get
cancer right so like it's not like
blanketly true but generally speaking
fear of a thing is worse for us than the
thing itself fear is absolutely the mind
killer right Frank Herbert so the the
longer think there's more to this
question though because I want I want to
point something out to you guys
fear of failure and failing is like one
solution although that's a potential
challenge right because you don't want
to just run around failing everything
like that's not good but I want to point
something else to you guys how can I can
I copy this okay I'm gonna just which
this this is gonna be our last question
by the way okay so what I want to do is
just I want to point something out to
you guys okay very important not to
score
Street labs not street lives here we go
[Music]
how do you deal with self-doubt some
time we're gonna just add some grammar
okay
in punctuation I feel I can do
everything and someday soon I feel I
can't because I have
so let's start with this so the first
thing is what is this what's that what
do you guys think what does that mean
yeah colors right it's great right so
people are saying fear right so this in
and of itself is not necessarily true so
we can see that this person has a
complex in their mind some scar right a
cognitive bias that failure is
inevitable and they have this pattern
where they feel like they're doing
everything right and it's all going to
come crashing down very common pattern
do you guys see that
it's like success 6x success and failure
they feel like the failure is inevitable
so this pattern needs to be dealt with
because this isn't necessarily true like
you can just like this this sentence
right here actually speaks to a lot of
like cognitive bias about how this
person deals with the world
this is their self-doubt the next thing
is that this this problem is not going
to be fixed until this portion goes away
so the pathology here is not that
failure is inevitable but that they they
actually like they don't stay stable
they like they have high highs and they
have low lows so you feel like you're on
top of the world and you're amazing and
everything is great and then you
everything crashes and that's because
like this feeling is gonna end because
that's not how real life is right you
can't feel like you're gonna do
everything like that feeling is gonna
come with like the other side of the
coin which is like the feeling of
failure so interestingly enough what
this person needs to do is be a little
bit more even and what they try to do is
they deal with the self cottan
self-doubt right but if
you guys want some real 5head [ __ ] what
the question should be is how do I deal
with unrealistic overconfidence do you
guys see that you can't have one without
the other
so in a subtle subtle but important way
this is the big problem because I think
this is why they've failed because they
haven't correctly diagnosed the problem
because they keep on focusing on fear
and self-doubt
they don't actually realize that like
this is a problem and this is a problem
because if you have unrealistic
overconfidence your hopes are gonna be
dashed right so you have to see that and
so what this person needs to do is not
meditate when they're feeling doubtful
right so the other thing we're about
reckful is it's not just meditating
through bad emotions I want you guys to
understand this does anyone understand
why so I don't know if you got caught
this but like when he asked me to say
[ __ ] POG why did I say it does anyone
understand this okay so I think so so
you guys for those of you who think that
I'm trying to distract him from the
negative emotions that is partially
right okay the other reason that I said
it is that I wanted to teach him to
breathe through the highs and the lows
right it's just not meditation to remove
yourself from the negative it's
meditation to remove yourself from the
positive - it's finding equilibrium in
face of the highs and in space of the
loads because reckful - suffers this
thing where he gets super excited and
then super let down so detachment or
vital yeah which is the Sun Squidward is
about being detached from the good and
detached from the bad and so I trained
myself for the moment where there's this
thing called match day what do you
figure out where you're gonna do your
residency training and I went there and
I sort of knew I knew I had a pretty
good shot of getting into Mass General
Hospital in HM at Harvard Medical
and I trained myself for that moment and
I meditated and I said whatever this
piece of paper says I'm not gonna feel a
latent and I'm not gonna feel
disappointment both of them are off the
table I do not want either one the paper
says what it is going to say and that
will determine my future so be it I'm
gonna do the best that I can no matter
what the piece of paper says and then
you open the piece of paper and then I
saw a Mass General Hospital McLean
Hospital Harvard Medical School I smiled
yay
my wife was overjoyed everyone else was
overjoyed it was like great so be it so
be it tranquility and equilibrium
through the positive and the negative
because if you get disrupted on the on
the top end you're gonna face the low
end tranquility is not just about
avoidance of negative emotions it's
about avoidance not I mean it's not
avoidance of negative or positive its
tranquility in the face of both so you
should meditate when you're happy and
you should meditate when you're sad you
should meditate during all of these
different times and be able to find that
place within yourself it is not just an
avoidance of pain right does that make
sense so it is being with yourself and
this is how you really develop
confidence because if you can be
tranquil within yourself and not be
buffeted by the winds of success then
you also will not be buffeted by the
winds of failure the problem is that
everyone tries to use meditation is a
treatment to avoid negative emotion and
they're missing the point is a treatment
to avoid attachment to all emotion to be
able to live life in a tranquil state
and enjoy what comes at you no matter
what comes to be able to face it no
matter what comes whether the person
that you're trying to talk to is high on
psilocybin or not high on psilocybin you
are there for a reason and you do the
work that you need to do whether they
break down in 15 minutes and make
inflate your ego because that's what
everyone wants to see or they don't
break down in 15 minutes you are there
to do what you want to do so be tranquil
within yourself meditate in face of the
good and the bad and don't just chase
success and don't try to avoid faith
failure both of those things are eat
bad do the best that you can do what you
showed up to do and like just that's the
goal and success will come should you
strive to accomplish absolutely but
don't get caught up in it